The story is about a daring challenge that a brave woman threw to fate. No, no, she didn't climb Mount Everest in her tights. And she didn't sink to the bottom of the Mariana Trench in a cosmetic mask. Still more serious. She decided to give birth. It is said that billions of women have done this before her, but this is not accurate.
It remains unknown what inspired her to take such a risky step. It must be a thirst for achievement. But it is unlikely that a relationship with a vulnerable partner, whose sobs and sobs make up a noticeable part of the soundtrack.
9 months of asceticism remained behind the scenes. There are 30 minutes of final naturalism in the frame. In the thriller genre. Not every fan of horror stories-scarecrows will bear it. I'm not an amateur, and it was easier for me to turn away. It is foolish to rely on the aesthetic reaction of the public, showing the suffering of the b-ka in real time. After all, in real life, such cases do not involve passive observation.
Alas ,the "experience" failed. ADHD. I.e., the reasons are unclear. The world collapsed. Psychological problems piled up. We must somehow complete the Gestalt. It would be nice to put someone in jail. At least a midwife. Negligence? Incompetence? Medical error? Malice? I didn't understand what they were trying to accuse her of. There were no indications for preservation, the presentation was correct, no intervention was required, the child was born alive, an ambulance was called just in case…
Many months passed before the heroine's faded gaze fell on the sprouted seeds and, oh joy, the Gestalt closed itself. The woman opened herself to a new experience. The story of overcoming it, obviously, should inspire. But no. The demotivator from the "childfree" generation still worked. To repeat this, in any case, "without special training", you will not wish the enemy.
It seems that in the absence of war, sapiens loses the scale of grief and suffering. Ceases to consider childbirth and death an integral part of life. My grandmother gave birth and raised six children. I don't remember her ever thinking of herself as a heroine. As, indeed, most of the billions of mothers who lived before her. Maybe they were all hiding something?