The zombie theme will probably appear on the screen for a long time. One director found a good solution and now, from time to time, others try to repeat it. Sometimes it turns out pretty well, like in a Korean movie about a train, or in an entire franchise about the sinister Umbrella Corporation. But more often, all zombie films show a cheap craft, which is a pity for the time spent.
This movie belongs to the latter category. Assembled on the knee, by some amateurs, the first big big hands of the camera. The plot is a collection of stupidity and misunderstandings. This time, they decided to blame the aliens for the invasion of the living dead. They flew in to seize the Earth, and as a weapon they used the revival of corpses. Apparently, they also used the "stupefying ray", because even zombies behaved smarter than living people.
The actors' play can be compared to the playing of wooden puppets. The same mediocre, mechanical movements, with minimal emotions barely reflected on the faces. Dialogue with some absurd stupidity and often did not correspond to the moment. For example, an incomprehensible and uterine sound is heard, and then a woman's scream is heard. The heroine declares to her friend: “This is how death itself sounds! That's exactly what it was, but these sounds didn't sound like death at all. It looked more like someone had overeated and was now having digestive problems. Although it was not the most stupid dialogue. They met much worse.
The makeup is disgusting. I don’t remember anywhere else there were such mediocre painted actors. Special effects, if you can call them that proud word, are at the level of eight-bit game consoles. If it's even worse. The shots were simply painted over the top of the frame to simulate a formidable view from the face of the alien invaders, they put a red filter on the camera. Well, and it is absolutely ingenious to place a burning Bengal candle on top of the lens. This is for sparks to fall. Probably this is how they demonstrated a malfunction in the ship's wiring in unearthly hicks.
Let me summarize. The film is very weak. Even though it lasts only seventy minutes, even that time is a pity to waste on it. I rate "Dead Men Again" as one with a minus and categorically do not recommend viewing it.