Saw: The Spiral is the second spin-off of the acclaimed horror franchise and Chris Rock's attempt to breathe new life into it. The attempt, to be honest, is extremely unsuccessful, but very interesting from the point of view of analysis. Although the director of the second "Saw" Darren Lynn Bousman returned to the director's chair, and Samuel L. Jackson is listed in the caste, this does not save the tape. Although, unlike "Jigsaw" (which turned into "Saw 8" in the hands of domestic localizers), "Spiral" almost does not try to follow the path trodden by the previous films of the series, but chooses its own. Yes, this is still about a detective story with a search for a copycat of John Kramer, however, quite suddenly, the plot is centered on the political and social statements of the authors in the person of the studio and Chris Rock, who became the executive producer and the main actor, playing the detective. The application is, frankly, very curious.

The plot itself is a classic Saw movie. There is a maniac, there are traps, there are brutal murders, there is a detective line and a whole wagon of cardboard, poorly written characters with a set of both positive and negative qualities. But the motives of the local Jigsaw are not at all the same as those of the hero Tobin Bell from the original films - the Wannabe is driven by personal motives and grievances against the law enforcement system. John Kramer tried to fix people by participating in his cruel games, but his follower from "Spiral" just wants to cleanse the city of 'dirty' corrupt police officers who exceed their powers and act to please their needs. At the same time, it is difficult to say whether it is possible at all to win the games from "Spiral", since the central villain clearly seeks to kill a person as gracefully as possible, and not to re-educate him.

The previous tapes of the series suffered from such a problem, but they positioned themselves only as a bloody attraction. But "Spiral" is a movie criticizing the modern American police system and it will sound like nonsense, even of Donald Trump. It is worth remembering that the picture was filmed in the summer of 2019, when Trump was still the current president of the United States, and no one could even think of the BLM community. Therefore, the film focuses on the total distrust of society in the current government and the oppression of immigrants from Mexico, whom the police kill either for fun or for personal gain. It's funny, because if not for the transfer of the film for a whole year due to the Coronavirus pandemic, in 2020 it would have been released just against the background of the clashes between the BLM community and the police. Would that make the picture the box office? Unlikely. However, she could well have received a cult status.

"Spiral", even on a visual level, draws the image of the city as if it were engulfed in fire due to the abnormally high temperature. Mostly reddish tones in general plans shout to the viewer that the city is literally on fire due to corruption, hypocrisy and selfishness. Thus, creating a kind of Hell on Earth, on which the main character walks, performed by comedian Chris Rock. One could even joke about the fact that the Constructor's trademark in the form of a spiral is an allegory for 9 circles of Hell, but this is not so. Although religious motives are present in the film, they do not slip into completely outright nonsense.

And after all, all this, even if it sounds like sheer nonsense and absurdity, but does not agree with the fact that this is at least something new in a long-gone franchise - stupid. The authors of "Spiral" really tried to bring at least some novelty to the series, making a political agenda out of horror. However, "Spiral" does not go further than this, because apart from the application for this very agenda and a couple of visual images that reinforce the problematic of the tape, there is nothing else. The story of the search for the Copycat itself is a whole manual on how you can collect in one movie all sorts of clichés and clichés from a detective story about a lone hero. The characters even speak not like real people, but exactly like cardboard boxes from some niche television project from the 90s about policemen.

And Chris Rock himself plays so badly that it already becomes not even funny from what is happening on the screen. Rock then screams, then theatrically beats the walls and screams, then languidly looks into the distance, and then screams. And Rock really tries to play. He tries his best to give out emotion, but in the end, the viewer still does not understand what exactly the actor is trying to show. The hero of Chris Rock is a tree without emotions, which is not only boring to watch, but also does not cause any sympathy. Empathy for the character tries to evoke the script, making him an outcast at the police station. And not because he is black, but because, in the opinion of his colleagues, he is a snitch. What did he do? He handed over a dirty policeman who was eventually imprisoned. But that means that justice has been done, right? Yes, but the police are not satisfied with this, which means this is a reason to stick a summons!

The police in "Spiral" do not protect, and, no matter how flat it may sound, they protect the scum and exceed their powers. And all this is needed in order for the picture to finally bring its viewer to the idea that modern Americanian law enforcement agencies need a dramatic change. In fact, the new Saw does not want to change people, as John Kramer did - he wants to change the whole system, killing dirty cops who can’t see anything beyond their own noses. This is why Chris Rock's character is an outcast. He is driven by exceptionally good intentions, he is the only one who tries to achieve justice and at least some kind of justice, which is why he is forced to hear insults from his colleagues day after day. It would seem that such a plot can be presented competently and interestingly. However, "Spiral" simply screams through the lips of Chris Rock instead of writing the characters, their characters and their motives.

Spiral is not just the weakest film in the franchise, but even the worst. It is inferior to its predecessors on literally all fronts, from the content to the technical side. If the horizon littered in almost every scene is an artistic decision, then it is as strange as it was in one of the worst films in the history of cinema, "Battlefield: Earth." At the same time, the first parts did not even need fabulous budgets to involve the viewer in what was happening. Just a reminder: in the first "Saw" the obstacle for the heroes on the way to freedom was a simple chain on their legs, and not cunningly complex mechanisms, more like traps from some kind of sai-fai. Yet the characters and their ambiguous stories catch and work much better than empty political slogans like Spike Lee's films, only shaking the air.