Seeing the synopsis of Women in the Window flashed before my eyes the introduction of Alfred Hitchcock's Courtyard Window, a film that is one of the best thrillers of the 20th century and had a huge impact on the genre in general. Hitchcock was a master of suspense, therefore, in view of the analogy that arose, expectations were overestimated. Making a film on the level of Hitchcock, not to mention trying to surpass his achievements, is a very difficult task. And how funny is the fact that it was on May 14, the day this product was released on the Netflix streaming platform, that there was a special screening of that very "Window to the Courtyard" in Moscow.

From the very beginning, the film is striking in its visual component. Beautiful shots, interesting camera solutions, work with a color palette make you savor every frame of the tape. The cameraman and production designer have done a truly incredible job, especially for the intimate film. By the way, it is the color palette and intimacy that reminds of the Oscar-winning Father Anthony Hopkins film. By the way, this is not the only parallel with other films that arises when watching. The atmosphere of the film is reminiscent of Charlie Kaufman's last year's Thinking How To Finish It All, with its abstract, suspenseful scenes. One of the characters in the film is madly reminiscent of Norman Bates, and some scenes completely copy "Psycho". Bloody knife, stairs, swing ...

If we talk about the film, then it keeps you in suspense throughout the entire timekeeping, thanks to the compositions of the frames and the excellent soundtrack by Danny Elfman. Amy Adams' excellent acting makes us believe that her character is indeed agoraphobic and capable of going insane. The disease itself and the apartment show its isolation and the inability to find a common language with the outside world. Harry Oldman brilliantly played the tyrant of his father, who is ready to do anything for his safety. The film deftly plays with the expectations of the viewer, forcing him to rush from one guess to another and successfully catch on it.

Thus, The Woman in the Window is a breathtaking thriller, with a beautiful picture, acting and script. The homage to Hitchcock, for which one is not ashamed.